# Evaluation-of-Multiple-Classification-Models-for-EEG-Based-Driver-Fatigue-Detection
a detailed analysis of 34 classification models for detecting driver fatigue based on EEG signals. The performance of the models is evaluated based on accuracy, training time, and error rate by taking all and most informative features derived from the EEG dataset.
This research investigates the efficiency of EEG signals in detecting driver drowsiness. Specifically, we focus on feature extraction from EEG signals obtained from 11 patients, extracting 11 relevant features for drowsiness detection. Subsequently, we employ three machine learning models, namely decision tree, support vector machine(SVM), and k-nearest neighbors(KNN), to classify drowsy and alert states based on the extracted features. MATLAB is utilized for model implementation and accuracy assessment. The study addresses the pressing need for effective drowsiness detection systems tailored to Indian drivers, considering unique socio-cultural factors. Results indicate promising accuracies for the employed models, offering insights for developing robust drowsiness detection solutions to enhance road safety in India.
Index Terms—Driver Drowsiness, Decision Tree, Support Vector Machine, K-Nearest Neighbor, **MATLAB**.

## Dataset
A labeled dataset is required since supervised learning methods are applied to solve the detection task. Such a dataset was already recorded and published here: [Hu and Min, 2018](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/The_original_EEG_data_for_driver_fatigue_detection/5202739).
It is required to download all folders, named simply '1.zip' to '12.zip', and extract them into a folder on your local machine.
## Pre-processing of all EEG Channels
Open and set the path variable to the dictionary with the EEG data in [CNTpreprocess.m](CNTpreprocess.m). This script opens the raw EEG time signal from the download, splits it into custom detection epochs (f.e. 1 second), and assigns the labels (0 normal, 1 fatigued). A Bandpass filter with a passband from 0.5 Hz up to 50 Hz is applied to the time signal. Thus, high-frequency noise and DC offsets are removed from the signal without losing relevant EEG signals for fatigue detection. The user can select the EEG channel indices given in [Channelinfo.xls](Channelinfo.xls) that are going to be extracted here. Run the script to save the raw data in a folder in your current working dictionary. All files containing the raw training data here should appear in mat-files **TrainingDataCh...**, separated by their channel index.
## Feature Extraction
Next, this pre-processed training data is analyzed and the features for the supervised learning and testing are extracted by running [Featureextraction.m](url) . Driver fatigue can be observed by careful statistical analysis of the individual EEG brainwave channels alpha, beta, gamma, and theta. 
All extracted features are saved in the mat-files **/AllChannelsData/FeaturesCh...**, along with the previously extracted raw training data. Again, the files are separated by their corresponding channel index.
## Supervised Learning
All labeled features in the last step can now be fed into arbitrary supervised learning systems to train and test the detection algorithm. 
## Classification Learner
Now, we will train the datasets through different models like- **Trees, SVM, KNN, etc** using all **11 features** to find their accuracy score. After that, we’ll use different feature selection algorithms like- **MRMR, Chi2, Relief** to choose the suitable feature and then find the accuracy score using the features.
